In this video we'll learn a little bit more about classes and objects you can think of classes as blueprints
from which objects are created classes or user defined types.
And one of the goals in Object-Oriented Programming is to make the user defined types feel like they're
part of the programming language.
So when we create our classes we want to be able to use them just like we use integers doubles and so
forth.
Easy and simple classes have attributes which are data and they also have functions which are called
methods as mentioned in the previous videos.
Classes can hide data and methods that are only used internally by the class.
This is done using the private and public access modifiers.
The goal of the class is to provide a well-defined public interface that the user of the class can easily
use to solve the problem.
Here's an example.
Classes account employee image standard vector and standard string.
These are all classes that modeled real world entities.
Vector unstring are part of the C++ standard library account employee and image might be classes that
we would create in our applications.
Ok so now that we know what a class is what's an object.
Well objects are created from classes and represent a specific instance of the class they're created
from.
So if I have an account class I can create a Franke's account object.
That's a specific instance of an account that models Franke's account information.
We can have as many objects as we need if we're remodeling a real banking application.
We could have hundreds of thousands of account objects each representing an individual instance of an
account each object has its own identity and each can use the methods defined in the class.
Let's see an example we know that ints and doubles are primitive types in C++.
They're not classes but this anality will help make a point in the first two lines we define two integers
high score and low score.
What does that tell us.
Well it tells us what the valid values are for those variables.
And it also tells us the operations we can perform on the variables for example addition subtraction
multiplication and so forth.
Again integers are not classes but just for a moment.
Think of it as the class and low score and high scores.
Objects created from the in-class notice that low score and high score are instances of integer.
They each have a value and they each have an identity.
Now look at the next two lines.
Let's assume that we've already written the account class and it's a true C++ class.
Notice the syntax and how similar it is to the syntax for the integers above.
Account is a user defined type.
So Frank account and Jim account are instances of the Account class.
They are objects.
Each of these objects has an identity and values associated with them.
Just like high and low score did this should look familiar since we've already been using objects all
along the last two lines create a score's object that's an instance of a vector of integers and a name
object that's an instance of string.
Ok so now that we know a little bit more about classes and objects let's see how we can declare a class
in C++ in the next video.